content/bpmn/tasks/overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Tasks Overview"
description = "This is my description"
weight = 1
[menu.main]
parent = "tasks"
+++

## Tasks
Tasks in BPMN are represented by rectangles with rounded corners. Tasks represent the units of work or activities in a process. They show the specific actions and steps that need to be performed as part of the process. They can be manual or automated, based on who or what performs the task.

## Send Task
Send tasks involve sending a message or notification to an external recipient or system. They are used to represent when a process requires communication or transmit information to an external entity. Some examples of send tasks are email notifications, SMS notifications and file transfers.                    

## Receive Task
Receive tasks involve receiving a message or notification from an external recipient or system. They are used to represent when a process requires communication or receive information from an external entity. Some examples of receive tasks are email responses, system notifications and web service responses.

## User Task
User tasks require user involvement. This typically involves user interaction for input or actions and involves interfaces that facilitate interaction with the task. Some examples of user tasks are form submissions, approvals, reviews and scheduling.

## Manual Task
Manual tasks require human involvement. This typically involves human interaction, decision-making or physical actions. Some examples of manual tasks are reviews and approvals, data entry, inspections and documentation.

## Business Rule Task

## Service Task

## Script Task
Script tasks involve running a snippet of code or a script. This typically involves the execution of custom scripts or code snippets written in a programming language to perform computational tasks, data transformations, or decision-making processes that require custom logic. Some examples of script tasks are error and exception handling, processing variables and API interactions.

Commit message:

Added service tasks and script tasks to tasks page

content/bpmn/tasks/overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Tasks Overview"
description = "This is my description"
weight = 1
[menu.main]
parent = "tasks"
+++

## Tasks
Tasks in BPMN are represented by rectangles with rounded corners. Tasks represent the units of work or activities in a process. They show the specific actions and steps that need to be performed as part of the process. They can be manual or automated, based on who or what performs the task.

## Send Task
Send tasks involve sending a message or notification to an external recipient or system. They are used to represent when a process requires communication or transmit information to an external entity. Some examples of send tasks are email notifications, SMS notifications and file transfers.                    

## Receive Task
Receive tasks involve receiving a message or notification from an external recipient or system. They are used to represent when a process requires communication or receive information from an external entity. Some examples of receive tasks are email responses, system notifications and web service responses.

## User Task
User tasks require user involvement. This typically involves user interaction for input or actions and involves interfaces that facilitate interaction with the task. Some examples of user tasks are form submissions, approvals, reviews and scheduling.

## Manual Task
Manual tasks require human involvement. This typically involves human interaction, decision-making or physical actions. Some examples of manual tasks are reviews and approvals, data entry, inspections and documentation.

## Business Rule Task
Business tasks involve business rules. This involves applying business rules or decision logic within the process flow. They can be used to evaluate conditions, make decisions, and determine the path the process should follow based on predefined rules. Some examples of business rule tasks are credit approvals, discount calculations and pricing determinations.

## Service Task
Service tasks involve services and systems. This involves invoking services, performing operations, integrating with external applications, or executing predefined service activities. Some examples of service tasks are integration and orchestration, service operations and synchronous and asynchronous communication.

## Script Task
Script tasks involve running a snippet of code or a script. This typically involves the execution of custom scripts or code snippets written in a programming language to perform computational tasks, data transformations, or decision-making processes that require custom logic. Some examples of script tasks are error and exception handling, processing variables and API interactions.
