content/bpmn/gateways/overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Gateway Overview"
description = "This is my description"
weight = 1
[menu.main]
parent = "gateways"
+++

BPMN gateways are used to depict decision points and control flow within a process in business process modelling. Gateways enable the modelling of complex routing and branching logic, allowing for conditional paths and synchronisation of process flows. They help define how the process should behave based on certain conditions or events. The 5 gateway types, Parallel, Inclusive, Exclusive, Complex and Event Based, each represent different condition logic, such as AND, XOR, OR and +.

## Exclusive Gateway

## Inclusive Gateway

## Parallel Gateway
A parallel gateway represents a synchronization point where multiple incoming sequence flows are merged into a single outgoing flow or vice versa. It is used to split the process flow into parallel paths or to join parallel paths back together. All incoming sequence flows must complete before the gateway allows the process to continue.
## Event-Based Gateway

## Complex Gateway

Commit message:

Added inclusive gateways to gateways overview

content/bpmn/gateways/overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Gateway Overview"
description = "This is my description"
weight = 1
[menu.main]
parent = "gateways"
+++

BPMN gateways are used to depict decision points and control flow within a process in business process modelling. Gateways enable the modelling of complex routing and branching logic, allowing for conditional paths and synchronisation of process flows. They help define how the process should behave based on certain conditions or events. The 5 gateway types, Parallel, Inclusive, Exclusive, Complex and Event Based, each represent different condition logic, such as AND, XOR, OR and +.

## Exclusive Gateway

## Inclusive Gateway
An inclusive gateway allows multiple outgoing sequence flows to be chosen simultaneously. It represents a decision point where multiple paths can be followed concurrently based on their conditions. All sequence flows whose conditions evaluate to true will be taken.
## Parallel Gateway
A parallel gateway represents a synchronization point where multiple incoming sequence flows are merged into a single outgoing flow or vice versa. It is used to split the process flow into parallel paths or to join parallel paths back together. All incoming sequence flows must complete before the gateway allows the process to continue.
## Event-Based Gateway

## Complex Gateway
