content/deploy/install/services.md, before:

---
title: Install Rhize services
description: >-
  Instructions to install services in the Rhize Kubernetes cluster.
weight: 100
categories: "how-to"
menu:
  main:
    parent: install
    identifier: install-services
---

The final installation step is to install the Rhize services in your Kubernetes cluster.

## Prerequisites

- This topic assumes you have [Set up Kubernetes](/deploy/install/setup-kubernetes) and [Configured Keycloak]({{< relref "keycloak" >}}). All the prerequisites for those topics apply here.
- Configure load balancing for the following DNS records:
<!-- vale off -->

    | Service  | Domain                                                  |
    |----------|---------------------------------------------------------|
    | Admin UI | `<CUSTOMER>-{{< param application_name >}}.{{< param domain_name >}}`                          |
    | Keycloak | `<CUSTOMER>-auth.{{< param domain_name >}}`                           |
    | GraphQL  | `<CUSTOMER>-api.{{< param domain_name >}}`                            |
    | NATS     | `<CUSTOMER>-mqtt.{{< param domain_name >}}`                           |
    | Grafana  | `<CUSTOMER>-grafana.{{< param domain_name >}}`                        |

<!-- vale on -->

### Overrides

Each service is installed through a Helm YAML file.
For some of these services, you might need to edit this file to add credential information and modify defaults.

Common values that are changed include:
- URLs and URL links
- The number of replicas running for each pod
- Ingress values for services exposed on the internet

## Get client secrets.

1. Go to Keycloak and get the secrets for each client you've created.
1. Create a Kubernetes secrets for each service with this command:
    ```bash
    kubectl delete secret generic {{< param application_name >}}-client-secrets -n {{< param application_name >}} --from-literal=dashboard=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Agent=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Audit=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Baas=KYbMHlRLhXwiDNFuDCl3qtPj1cNdeMSl --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}BPMN=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Core=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}UI=123 --from-literal=router=123
    ```

As you install services through Helm, their respective YAML files reference these secrets.

## Install and add roles for the DB {#db}

You must install the {{< param db >}} database service first.
You also need to configure the {{< param db >}} service to have roles in Keycloak.

If enabling the Audit Trail include, refer to [Enable change data capture](#enable-change-data-capture).



1. Use Helm to install the database:

    ```bash
    helm install -f baas.yaml {{< param application_name >}}-baas {{< param application_name >}}/baas -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

    To confirm it works, run the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods
    ```

    All statuses should be `RUNNING`.


1. Return to the Keycloak UI and add all `{{< param application_name >}}` roles to the admin group.

1. Proxy the `http:8080` port on `{{< param application_name >}}-baas-dgraph-alpha`.

1. Get a token using the credentials. With `curl`, it looks like this:

    ```bash
    curl --location --request POST 'https://<customer>-
    auth.{{< param application_name >}}/realms/{{< param application_name >}}/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
    --data-urlencode 'grant_type=password' \
    --data-urlencode 'username=system@{{< param application_name >}}.com' \
    --data-urlencode 'password=<PASSWORD>' \
    --data-urlencode 'client_id={{< param application_name >}}Baas' \
    --data-urlencode 'client_secret=<CLIENT_SECRET>'
    ```

1. Post the schema:

    ```bash
    curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:<FORWARDED_PORT>/admin/schema' \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>' \
    --data grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:uma-ticket" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/octet-stream' \
    --data-binary '<SCHEMA_FILE>’
    ```

    This creates more roles.

1. Go to Keycloak UI and add all new {{< param db >}} roles to the `ADMIN` group.

If the install is successful, the Keycloak UI is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).


## Install services

Each of the following procedures installs a service through Helm.

The syntax to install a Rhize service must have arguments for the following:
- The chart YAML file
- The packaged chart
- The path to the unpackaged chart or directory

Additionally, use the `-n` flag to ensure that the install is scoped to the correct namespace:


```
helm install <service_name> \
  -f <service-overide-file>.yaml \
  <path/to/directory> \
  -n <ns>
```

For the full configuration options,
read the official [Helm `install` reference](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/).

<!-- vale off -->
### NATS {#nats}
<!-- vale on -->


[NATS](https://nats.io) is the message broker that powers Rhize's event-driven architecture.

Install NATS with these steps:

1. Modify the NATS Helm file with your code editor. Edit any necessary overrides.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```
    helm install nats -f nats.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/nats -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```


### Tempo

Rhize uses [Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo/) to trace BPMN processes.

Install Tempo with these steps:

1. If it doesn't exist, add the Tempo repository:

    ```bash
    helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
    ```

1. Modify the Helm file as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install tempo -f tempo.yaml grafana/tempo -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

### Core

The {{< param brand_name >}} Core service is the custom edge agent that monitors data sources, like OPC-UA servers, and publishes and subscribes topics to NATS.

> **Requirements**: Core requires the [{{< param db >}}](#db) and [NATS](#nats) services.

Install the Core agent with these steps:

1. In the `core.yaml` Helm file, edit the `clientSecret` and `password` with settings from the Keycloak client.
1. Override any other values, as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install core -f core.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/core -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

### BPMN

The BPMN service is the custom engine Rhize uses to process low-code workflows modeled in the BPMN UI.

> **Requirements**: The BPMN service requires the [{{< param db >}}](#db), [NATS](#nats), and [Tempo](#tempo) services.

Install the BPMN engine with these steps:

1. Open `bpmn.yaml` Update the `clientSecret` and `password` for your BPMN Keycloak credentials.
1. Modify any other values, as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

   ```bash
   helm install bpmn -f bpmn.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/bpmn -n {{< param application_name >}}
   ```

### Router

Rhize uses the [Apollo router](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router) to unite queries for different services in a single endpoint.

> **Requirements:** Router requires the [GraphDB](#db), [BPMN](#bpmn), and [Core](#core) services.

Install the router with these steps:

1. Modify the router Helm YAML file as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install router -f router.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/router -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

If the install is successful, the Router explorer is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

### Grafana

Rhize uses [Grafana](https://grafana.com) for its dashboard to monitor real time data.

Install Grafana with these steps:

1. Modify the Grafana Helm YAML file as needed.

1. Add the Helm repository
    ```bash
    helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
    ```

1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install grafana -f grafana.yaml grafana/grafana -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

If the install is successful, the Grafana service is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

### Agent

The Rhize agent bridges your plant processes with the Rhize data hub.
It collects data emitted from the plant and publishes it to the NATS message broker.

> **Requirements:** Agent requires the [Graph DB](#db), [Nats](#nats), and [Tempo](#tempo) services.

Install the agent with these steps:

1. Modify the Agent Helm file as needed.
2. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install agent -f agent.yaml libre/agent -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

## Install UI

The UI is the graphical frontend to [handle events]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn" >}}) and [define work masters]({{< relref "/how-to/model" >}}).

> **Requirements:** The UI requires the [GraphDB](#db), [BPMN](#bpmn), [Core](#core), and [Router](#router) services.

After installing all other services, install the UI with these steps:

1. Forward the port from the Router API.
1. Open the UI Helm file. Update the `envVars` object with settings from the UI Keycloak client.
1. Modify any other values, as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install ui -f ui-overrides.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/admin-ui -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

If the install is successful, the UI is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

## Optional: Audit Trail Service


The Rhize Audit service provides an audit trail for database changes to install. The Audit service uses InfluxDB2 for storage.

Install Audit Service with these steps:

1. Modify the InfluxDB Helm YAML file as needed. It is *recommended* to set the admin password and token in the Helm YAML file to prevent over writing the values with random values every deploy.

1. Add InfluxDB Helm repository
    ```bash
    helm repo add influxdata https://helm.influxdata.com
    ```

1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install influxdb2 -f ./influxdb2.yaml influxdata/influxdb2 -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

1. Modify the Audit trail Helm YAML file. Include the OIDC configuration and InfluxDB2 token.

2. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install audit -f audit.yaml libre/audit -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

### Enable Change Data Capture

The Audit trial requires [Change Data Capture (CDC)]({{< ref "track-changes" >}}) to function. To enable CDC in {{< param application_name >}} BAAS, include the following values for the Helm chart overrides:

```yaml
alpha:
  # Change Data Capture (CDC)
  cdc:
    # Enable
    enabled: true
    # If configured for security, configure in NATS url. For example `nats://username:password@nats:4222`
    nats: nats://nats:4222
    # Adjust based on high-availability requirements and cluster size.
    replicas: 1
```

## Troubleshoot

For general Kubernetes issues, the [Kubernetes dashboard](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/) is great for troubleshooting, and you can configure it to be accessible through the browser.

For particular problems, try these commands:

- **Is my service running?**

   To check deployment status, use this command:

   ```bash
    kubectl get deployments
    ```

    Look for the pod name and its status.

- **Access service through browser**

    Some services are accessible through the browser.
    To access them, visit local host on the service's [default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

- **I installed a service too early**.
    If you installed a service too early, use Helm to uninstall:

    ```bash
    helm uninstall {{< param db >}}
    ```

    Then perform the steps you need and reinstall when ready.

Commit message:

Add router additions for audit

content/deploy/install/services.md, after:

---
title: Install Rhize services
description: >-
  Instructions to install services in the Rhize Kubernetes cluster.
weight: 100
categories: "how-to"
menu:
  main:
    parent: install
    identifier: install-services
---

The final installation step is to install the Rhize services in your Kubernetes cluster.

## Prerequisites

- This topic assumes you have [Set up Kubernetes](/deploy/install/setup-kubernetes) and [Configured Keycloak]({{< relref "keycloak" >}}). All the prerequisites for those topics apply here.
- Configure load balancing for the following DNS records:
<!-- vale off -->

    | Service  | Domain                                                  |
    |----------|---------------------------------------------------------|
    | Admin UI | `<CUSTOMER>-{{< param application_name >}}.{{< param domain_name >}}`                          |
    | Keycloak | `<CUSTOMER>-auth.{{< param domain_name >}}`                           |
    | GraphQL  | `<CUSTOMER>-api.{{< param domain_name >}}`                            |
    | NATS     | `<CUSTOMER>-mqtt.{{< param domain_name >}}`                           |
    | Grafana  | `<CUSTOMER>-grafana.{{< param domain_name >}}`                        |

<!-- vale on -->

### Overrides

Each service is installed through a Helm YAML file.
For some of these services, you might need to edit this file to add credential information and modify defaults.

Common values that are changed include:
- URLs and URL links
- The number of replicas running for each pod
- Ingress values for services exposed on the internet

## Get client secrets.

1. Go to Keycloak and get the secrets for each client you've created.
1. Create a Kubernetes secrets for each service with this command:
    ```bash
    kubectl delete secret generic {{< param application_name >}}-client-secrets -n {{< param application_name >}} --from-literal=dashboard=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Agent=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Audit=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Baas=KYbMHlRLhXwiDNFuDCl3qtPj1cNdeMSl --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}BPMN=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}Core=123 --from-literal={{< param application_name >}}UI=123 --from-literal=router=123
    ```

As you install services through Helm, their respective YAML files reference these secrets.

## Install and add roles for the DB {#db}

You must install the {{< param db >}} database service first.
You also need to configure the {{< param db >}} service to have roles in Keycloak.

If enabling the Audit Trail include, refer to [Enable change data capture](#enable-change-data-capture).



1. Use Helm to install the database:

    ```bash
    helm install -f baas.yaml {{< param application_name >}}-baas {{< param application_name >}}/baas -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

    To confirm it works, run the following command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods
    ```

    All statuses should be `RUNNING`.


1. Return to the Keycloak UI and add all `{{< param application_name >}}` roles to the admin group.

1. Proxy the `http:8080` port on `{{< param application_name >}}-baas-dgraph-alpha`.

1. Get a token using the credentials. With `curl`, it looks like this:

    ```bash
    curl --location --request POST 'https://<customer>-
    auth.{{< param application_name >}}/realms/{{< param application_name >}}/protocol/openid-connect/token' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
    --data-urlencode 'grant_type=password' \
    --data-urlencode 'username=system@{{< param application_name >}}.com' \
    --data-urlencode 'password=<PASSWORD>' \
    --data-urlencode 'client_id={{< param application_name >}}Baas' \
    --data-urlencode 'client_secret=<CLIENT_SECRET>'
    ```

1. Post the schema:

    ```bash
    curl --location --request POST 'http://localhost:<FORWARDED_PORT>/admin/schema' \
    --header 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>' \
    --data grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:uma-ticket" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/octet-stream' \
    --data-binary '<SCHEMA_FILE>’
    ```

    This creates more roles.

1. Go to Keycloak UI and add all new {{< param db >}} roles to the `ADMIN` group.

If the install is successful, the Keycloak UI is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).


## Install services

Each of the following procedures installs a service through Helm.

The syntax to install a Rhize service must have arguments for the following:
- The chart YAML file
- The packaged chart
- The path to the unpackaged chart or directory

Additionally, use the `-n` flag to ensure that the install is scoped to the correct namespace:


```
helm install <service_name> \
  -f <service-overide-file>.yaml \
  <path/to/directory> \
  -n <ns>
```

For the full configuration options,
read the official [Helm `install` reference](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/).

<!-- vale off -->
### NATS {#nats}
<!-- vale on -->


[NATS](https://nats.io) is the message broker that powers Rhize's event-driven architecture.

Install NATS with these steps:

1. Modify the NATS Helm file with your code editor. Edit any necessary overrides.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```
    helm install nats -f nats.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/nats -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```


### Tempo

Rhize uses [Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo/) to trace BPMN processes.

Install Tempo with these steps:

1. If it doesn't exist, add the Tempo repository:

    ```bash
    helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
    ```

1. Modify the Helm file as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install tempo -f tempo.yaml grafana/tempo -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

### Core

The {{< param brand_name >}} Core service is the custom edge agent that monitors data sources, like OPC-UA servers, and publishes and subscribes topics to NATS.

> **Requirements**: Core requires the [{{< param db >}}](#db) and [NATS](#nats) services.

Install the Core agent with these steps:

1. In the `core.yaml` Helm file, edit the `clientSecret` and `password` with settings from the Keycloak client.
1. Override any other values, as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install core -f core.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/core -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

### BPMN

The BPMN service is the custom engine Rhize uses to process low-code workflows modeled in the BPMN UI.

> **Requirements**: The BPMN service requires the [{{< param db >}}](#db), [NATS](#nats), and [Tempo](#tempo) services.

Install the BPMN engine with these steps:

1. Open `bpmn.yaml` Update the `clientSecret` and `password` for your BPMN Keycloak credentials.
1. Modify any other values, as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

   ```bash
   helm install bpmn -f bpmn.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/bpmn -n {{< param application_name >}}
   ```

### Router

Rhize uses the [Apollo router](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router) to unite queries for different services in a single endpoint.

> **Requirements:** Router requires the [GraphDB](#db), [BPMN](#bpmn), and [Core](#core) services.

Install the router with these steps:

1. Modify the router Helm YAML file as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install router -f router.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/router -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

If the install is successful, the Router explorer is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

### Grafana

Rhize uses [Grafana](https://grafana.com) for its dashboard to monitor real time data.

Install Grafana with these steps:

1. Modify the Grafana Helm YAML file as needed.

1. Add the Helm repository
    ```bash
    helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
    ```

1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install grafana -f grafana.yaml grafana/grafana -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

If the install is successful, the Grafana service is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

### Agent

The Rhize agent bridges your plant processes with the Rhize data hub.
It collects data emitted from the plant and publishes it to the NATS message broker.

> **Requirements:** Agent requires the [Graph DB](#db), [Nats](#nats), and [Tempo](#tempo) services.

Install the agent with these steps:

1. Modify the Agent Helm file as needed.
2. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install agent -f agent.yaml libre/agent -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

## Install UI

The UI is the graphical frontend to [handle events]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn" >}}) and [define work masters]({{< relref "/how-to/model" >}}).

> **Requirements:** The UI requires the [GraphDB](#db), [BPMN](#bpmn), [Core](#core), and [Router](#router) services.

After installing all other services, install the UI with these steps:

1. Forward the port from the Router API.
1. Open the UI Helm file. Update the `envVars` object with settings from the UI Keycloak client.
1. Modify any other values, as needed.
1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install ui -f ui-overrides.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/admin-ui -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

If the install is successful, the UI is available on its
[default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

## Optional: Audit Trail Service


The Rhize Audit service provides an audit trail for database changes to install. The Audit service uses InfluxDB2 for storage.

Install Audit Service with these steps:

1. Modify the InfluxDB Helm YAML file as needed. It is *recommended* to set the admin password and token in the Helm YAML file to prevent over writing the values with random values every deploy.

1. Add InfluxDB Helm repository
    ```bash
    helm repo add influxdata https://helm.influxdata.com
    ```

1. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install influxdb2 -f ./influxdb2.yaml influxdata/influxdb2 -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

1. Modify the Audit trail Helm YAML file. Include the OIDC configuration and InfluxDB2 token.

2. Install with Helm:

    ```bash
    helm install audit -f audit.yaml libre/audit -n {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

### Enable Change Data Capture

The Audit trial requires [Change Data Capture (CDC)]({{< ref "track-changes" >}}) to function. To enable CDC in {{< param application_name >}} BAAS, include the following values for the Helm chart overrides:

```yaml
alpha:
  # Change Data Capture (CDC)
  cdc:
    # Enable
    enabled: true
    # If configured for security, configure in NATS url. For example `nats://username:password@nats:4222`
    nats: nats://nats:4222
    # Adjust based on high-availability requirements and cluster size.
    replicas: 1
```

### Enable Audit Subgraph

The Audit trail subgraph is super composed into the router in order to use. To enable router to use and compose the subgraph:

1. Update the Router Helm chart overrides, `router.yaml`, to include:

```yaml
# Add Audit to the router subgraph url override
router:
  configuration:
    override_subgraph_url:
      AUDIT: http://audit:8084/query

# If supergraph compose is enabled
supergraphCompose:
  supergraphConfig:
    subgraphs:
    AUDIT:
      routing_url: http://audit:8084/query
      schema:
        subgraph_url: http://audit:8084/query
```

2. Update the Router deployment

```shell
$ helm upgrade --install router -f router.yaml {{< param application_name >}}/router -n {{< param application_name >}}
```

## Troubleshoot

For general Kubernetes issues, the [Kubernetes dashboard](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/web-ui-dashboard/) is great for troubleshooting, and you can configure it to be accessible through the browser.

For particular problems, try these commands:

- **Is my service running?**

   To check deployment status, use this command:

   ```bash
    kubectl get deployments
    ```

    Look for the pod name and its status.

- **Access service through browser**

    Some services are accessible through the browser.
    To access them, visit local host on the service's [default port]({{< ref "default-ports" >}}).

- **I installed a service too early**.
    If you installed a service too early, use Helm to uninstall:

    ```bash
    helm uninstall {{< param db >}}
    ```

    Then perform the steps you need and reinstall when ready.
