content/deploy/install/setup-kubernetes.md, before:

---
title: 'Set up Kubernetes'
date: '2023-09-22T14:49:53-03:00'
categories: ["how-to"]
description:
  How to install Rhize services on your Kubernetes cluster.
weight: 050
---

This guide shows you how to install Rhize services on your Kubernetes cluster.
You can also use this procedure as the model for an automation workflow in your CI.


## Prerequisites {#prereqs}

Before starting, ensure that you have the following technical requirements.

**Software requirements**:
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh)
- Curl, or some similar program to make HTTP requests from the command line

**Access requirements**:
- Administrative privileges for a running Kubernetes cluster in your environment.
  Your organization must set this up.
- Access to Rhize Helm charts and its build repository.
  Rhize provides these to all customers.

**Optional utilities.**
For manual installs, the following auxiliary tools might make
the experience a little more human friendly:
{{% param pre_reqs %}}

  Again, these are helpers, not requirements.
  You can install everything with only the `kubectl` and `helm` commands.


## Steps to set up Kubernetes

First, record your site and environment.
Then, follow these steps.

1. Create a namespace called {{< param application_name >}}.

    ```bash
    kubectl create ns {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

    Confirm it works with `kubectl get ns`.

    On success, the output shows an active `{{< param application_name >}}` namespace.

1. Set this namespace as a default with

    ```bash
    kubectl config set-context --current --namespace={{< param application_name >}}
    ```

    Alternatively, you can modify the kube `config` file or use the `kubens` tool.

1. Add the Helm repository:

    ```bash
    helm repo add \
         --username <EMAIL_ADDRESS> \
         --password <ACCESS_TOKEN> \
         {{< param application_name >}} \
   <REPO>
    ```


1. Create the container image pull secret:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret docker-registry {{< param application_name >}}-registry-credential \
     --docker-server=<DOCKER_SERVER> \ ## the repository
     --docker-password= <ACCESS_TOKEN> \
     --docker-email= <EMAIL_ADDRESS>
    ```

    Confirm the secrets with this command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get secrets
    ```


1. Add the Bitnami Helm repository:

     ```bash
     helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
     ```

1. Pull the build template repository (we will supply this).

1. Update overrides to `keycloak.yaml`. Then install with this command:

     ```bash
     helm install keycloak -f ./keycloak.yaml bitnami/keycloak -n libre
     ```

1. Set up port forwarding from Keycloak. For example, this forwards traffic to port `5101` on `localhost`

     ```bash
     kubectl port-forward  svc/keycloak 5101:80
     ```

## Next steps

1. [Configure Keycloak]({{< relref "keycloak.md" >}})
1. [Install services]({{< relref "services.md" >}}).

Commit message:

Update install guide for v3.1.0 (#179)
* feat: add in basic changes for v3.1.0 install guide, mainly includes fixes noticed while doing setup

* fix: added more changes based on install notes

* fix: remove keycloak wrapper option as install guide should only contain steps for installing manually

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: Matt Dodson <47385188+MattDodsonEnglish@users.noreply.github.com>

content/deploy/install/setup-kubernetes.md, after:

---
title: 'Set up Kubernetes'
date: '2023-09-22T14:49:53-03:00'
categories: ["how-to"]
description:
  How to install Rhize services on your Kubernetes cluster.
weight: 050
---

This guide shows you how to install Rhize services on your Kubernetes cluster.
You can also use this procedure as the model for an automation workflow in your CI.


## Prerequisites {#prereqs}

Before starting, ensure that you have the following technical requirements.

**Software requirements**:
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh)
- Curl, or some similar program to make HTTP requests from the command line

**Access requirements**:
- Administrative privileges for a running Kubernetes cluster in your environment.
  Your organization must set this up.
- Access to Rhize Helm charts and its build repository.
  Rhize provides these to all customers.

**Optional utilities.**
For manual installs, the following auxiliary tools might make
the experience a little more human friendly:
{{% param pre_reqs %}}

  Again, these are helpers, not requirements.
  You can install everything with only the `kubectl` and `helm` commands.


## Steps to set up Kubernetes

First, record your site and environment.
Then, follow these steps.

1. Create a namespace called {{< param application_name >}}.

    ```bash
    kubectl create ns {{< param application_name >}}
    ```

    Confirm it works with `kubectl get ns`.

    On success, the output shows an active `{{< param application_name >}}` namespace.

1. Set this namespace as a default with

    ```bash
    kubectl config set-context --current --namespace={{< param application_name >}}
    ```

    Alternatively, you can modify the kube `config` file or use the `kubens` tool.

1. Add the Rhize Helm Chart Repository:

    ```bash
    helm repo add \
      --username <EMAIL_ADDRESS> \
      --password <ACCESS_TOKEN> \
      {{< param application_name >}} \
      https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/42214456/packages/helm/stable
    ```

1. Create the container image pull secret:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret docker-registry {{< param application_name >}}-registry-credential \
      --docker-server=<HELM_REPOSITORY> \
      --docker-password=<ACCESS_TOKEN> \
      --docker-email=<EMAIL_ADDRESS>
    ```

    Confirm the secrets with this command:

    ```bash
    kubectl get secrets
    ```

1. Add the Bitnami Helm repository:

     ```bash
     helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
     ```

     And update repositories with:

     ```bash
     helm repo update
     ```

1. Pull the build template repository (we will supply this).

1. Update overrides to `keycloak.yaml`. Then install with this command:

     ```bash
     helm install keycloak -f ./keycloak.yaml bitnami/keycloak -n libre
     ```

> Note: Version may have to be specified by appending on `--version` and the desired chart version.

1. Set up port forwarding from Keycloak. For example, this forwards traffic to port `8080` on `localhost`.

     ```bash
     kubectl port-forward svc/keycloak 8080:80 -n libre
     ```
     
## Next steps

1. [Configure Keycloak]({{< relref "keycloak.md" >}})
1. [Install services]({{< relref "services.md" >}}).
