---
title: 3.0.1
date: '2024-07-23T10:42:31-03:00'
description: Release notes for v3.0.1 of the Rhize application
categories: ["releases"]
weight: 1696325267 ## auto-generated, don't change
v: "3.0.1"
og_image: images/og/graphic-rhize-release-v3.0.1.png
menu:
  main:
    parent: releases
---

Release notes for version 3.0.1 of the Rhize application.

This release includes bug fixes, improvements for developer experience, and new relationships between entities in the ISA-95 schema.
It also clears the way for the new, improved Work Calendar service (still in release candidacy).

_Release date:_
23 Jul 2024

{{< notice "warning" >}}
This release includes a few minor breaking changes, review the [upgrade](#upgrade) instructions for details.
{{< /notice >}}

### BPMN

**Features**

- Error boundary events now support call-activity tasks. If a task in the called process aborts, the error boundary captures that event.
- Support Custom [Certificate authorities](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) so that the BPMN service can run in networks with internal certificates authorities.
- [Message events]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn/bpmn-elements/#events" >}}) now support topics that use the `+` wildcard.
- Add configuration option to set __traceDebug flag on all BPMN executions. For details, read [Debug workflows]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn/debug-workflows" >}}).
- Allow `__traceDebug` to be set from [variable context]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn/create-workflow/#access-process-variable-context" >}}).
- Add support for querying a range of [work calendar]({{< relref "/how-to/work-calendars" >}}) entries for a Work Calendar Definition
  - When configured, calendar data persists to a timeseries DB.
  - `Breaking` Work calendars now query for `WorkCalendarDefinitions` not `workCalendars`.
  This makes it possible to configure calendars in the UI.
  - Work calendar execution is now based on Hierarchy Scope.

**Change**
- Reduce number of retries in [BPMN recovery]({{< relref "/deploy/maintain/bpmn-nodes/" >}}), speeding up response times when node does not exist.
From the user's perspective, the delay was particularly notable on [API BPMN triggers]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn/trigger-workflows/#start-a-workflow-from-an-api" >}}) when the specified workflow did not exist.

**Fixes**
- Capture panics in JSONata go for better recovery and discovery.
- `Breaking`. Limit BPMN users to only tokens with specific audience and scope.
- Workflow specifications not found in NATS now fall back to database lookups before failing.
  Fixes issue when spinning up new development containers.
- Include metadata fields for `jobResponse`. Fixes panic if node tried to access these fields.
- Respect [`debug`](/how-to/bpmn/debug-workflows/#adding-the-debug-flag) flag for BPMNs triggered with `createAndRunBpmn`.
- Reuse expected Audience for clients to match documented client name.
- Do not create calendar entry for end events.
- Fix nil pointer error when aborting tasks without parents


### Schema

**Features**
- `breaking`. Add `id` and `label` to `stateTransitionInstance`.
- Add menu URL for portal in UI (preparation for future work in UI).
- Add filter to query material actual by a material requirement and vice-versa.
- Link `workCalendarEntries` to equipment versions.
- Include Kafka in the enum values for data sources.
- Added optional `InformationObjectTypeEnum` to `OperationsEventRecordEntry`.

**Fixes**
- Add 0:N relationship from `materialRequirements` to `materialActual`.
- The `segmentResponse` entity can now have multiple `jobResponses` attached.
- Change `segmentResponse` relationship to `JobResponse` to be a 1:N relationship
- `Breaking`. Change `stateModelTransition` from `state` to a relationship.
- Fix inverse relationship between `operationseventDefinitionProperty` and `operationsEventProperty`.

### Core

**Features**
- Add validation to config files.
- Obfuscate sensitive information when published.
- Create operations event on migrations.
- Create `AppContext` to contain `context.Context`, `trace.Span`, and `logger` that can be passed around functions within the application.
- Add `getInformationObject` query resolver to GraphQL API


**Fixes**
- Change configuration keys to camel case and to be consistent between microservices. (Backward compatible)
- Prohibit secrets and environment variables from having the same ID. This fixes a bug in BPMN execution.
- Fix `saveVersionAs` bug.

**Refactor**
- `Breaking.` Change config file format from JSON to YAML.
- Remove unused properties.
- Use Rhize-Go service for Open Telemetry.


## Upgrade

To upgrade to v3.0.1, first ensure that you have made corrections for the aforementioned breaking changes.

Rhize now limits BPMN users to the `libreBpmn` audience and `bpmn:mutation` role.
If users do not have this audience and role, they will unable to log in.
To fix this:
1. Log in to the Keycloak service in your Rhize environment.
2. Select the `libre` realm.
3. Configure the audience and role for the Users or groups that should be able to run BPMN workflows. For details, read [Install Keycloak]({{< relref "/deploy/install/keycloak/" >}}).

Work calendars now query for `workCalendarDefinitions`, not `workCalendars`.
There is a chance this may break some calendars that already exist.
To mitigate this, ensure you set active definitions for the calendars you want to query.
Read [About calendars and overrides]({{< relref "/how-to/work-calendars/about-calendars-and-overrides" >}}) for details about how the service and its relationships work.

After you've made the necessary mitigations, follow the upgrade the [Upgrade instructions](/deploy/upgrade).

### Post upgrade

Two schema changes to the state model also might cause breaking changes after upgrade.
You can correct these issues by re-uploading the data.

For the specific breaks:

The `StateTransitionInstance` entity now has an `id` and `label` property.
Any such entities that were created without an ID and label are now invalid.
To mitigate this:
1. Query for your `StateTransitionInstance`:
   ```gql
   query QueryStateTransitionInstance {
     queryStateTransitionInstance {
       iid
     }
   }
   ```
2. Use a [mutation]({{< relref "/how-to/gql/mutate/#update" >}}) to update these to have an ID and label.


Any existing `StateModelTransitions` using a `from` or `to` property will break. Change these to a relationship.
