---
title: 3.3.0
date: '2026-02-19T02:52:13-05:00'
description: Release notes for v3.3.0 of the Rhize application
categories: ["releases"]
weight: 1648513086 ## auto-generated, don't change
---

Release notes for version 3.3.0 of the Rhize application.

_Release date:_
19 Feb 2026

## Changes by service

The following sections document the changes this release brings to each service.

### Admin

 - Change to align with v3.3.0 schema changes

### BPMN engine

 - Change to align with v3.3.0 schema changes

### Schema

#### Add
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to JobResponse.id
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to JobResponseData.description
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to JobResponseData.id
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to JobResponseData.label
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to JobResponseData.value
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to OperationsEvent.id
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to OperationsEventRecord.description
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to OperationsEventRecord.id
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to OperationsEventRecordEntry.id
 - Add `regexpcompare` and `hash` filter to OperationsEventRecordEntry.recordId
 - Add Segment resource Specifications including Segment resource Specification properties

#### Change
 - Change BAAS Docker image tag to v3.3.0-rc2 in CI and docs to include `regexpcompare`
 - Change cardinality of defines and definedBy on WorkMasters to align with their descriptions
 - Change cardinality to of the number of ProcessSegments to _0..n_ that a WorkMaster can fulfil
 - Change cardinality to of the number of OperationsSegments to _0..n_ that a WorkMaster can fulfil
 - Change cardinality to of the number of OperationsDefinition to _0..n_ that a WorkMaster can fulfil
 - Change description of `EquipmentUse` attribute to align with the standard
 - Change default baas container to use v3.3.0-rc2 to include `regexpcompare` filter type
 - Change physicalSample to a required field on a TestSpecification
 - Change ProcessSegmentVersion to link to Segment resource specification instead of resource specification
 - Change Test Specification has inverse field for EquipmentSpecification, PersonnelSpecification, PhysicalAssetSpecification and MaterialSpecifications to align with the description
 - Change the cardinality of testResults to _0..n_ on a PersonnelSpecification
 - Change the relationship names for a OperationsDefinition to itself from children, parent to defines, definedBy respectively
 - Change rover version to pin to v0.36.2 from latest for compatible pipeline builds

#### Fix
 - Fix description of a PhysicalAssetSpecification.id

#### Remove
 - Remove `processSegmentVersion` from `<resource>Specifications` as it now links to a `Segment<resource>Specification`
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from JobResponse.id
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from JobResponseData.description
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from JobResponseData.id
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from JobResponseData.label
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from JobResponseData.value
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from OperationsEvent.id
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from OperationsEventRecord.description
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from OperationsEventRecord.id
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from OperationsEventRecordEntry.id
 - Remove `regexp`, `fulltext` and `exact` filter from OperationsEventRecordEntry.recordId

### BAAS

#### Add
 - Add feature flag for detailed metrics by predicate and include warning with usage of high cardinality
 - Add prometheus metrics for badger compactions
 - Add support for Regexp Comparison [no Indexes] in GraphQL Queries and Filters

#### Change
 - Change etcd/raft to v3

#### Fix
 - Fix batching of running mutations in one transaction 
 - Fix incremental proposal key for zero proposals by changing to incrementing value instead of random value
 - Fix missing badger metrics by removing v3 from `expvar` lookup
 - Fix supercompose by adding `regexpcompare` to DgraphIndex enum across schema files

### Core

 - Change to align with v3.3.0 schema

### Agent

 - Change to align with v3.3.0 schema

### Audit

_Releasing in step with other components._

### Keycloak Theme

_Releasing in step with other components._

### Router

_Releasing in step with other components._

## Compatibility

{{< compatible "3.3.0" >}}

## Checksums

{{% checksums "v3.3.0-checksums.txt"  %}}

## Upgrade

To upgrade to v3.3.0, follow the [Upgrade instructions](/deploy/upgrade).

## Schema Breaking Changes

### Filter changes on high-cardinality types

Transactional entities (E.g. OperationsEvent, and JobResponseData) can have millions of records. Storing full-text, and regex index on these fields becomes storage prohibitive. The new `regexpcompare` filter offers the same functionality - but without indexing so it's computed at query time. For implementations replace all usages of regexp -> regexpcompare on these types. Since regexpcompare is not indexed, pair it with a high-selectivity filter first (e.g., effectiveStart: { gt: "..." }) for acceptable performance.

This affects:
 - JobResponse.id
 - JobResponseData.description
 - JobResponseData.id
 - JobResponseData.label
 - JobResponseData.value
 - OperationsEvent.id
 - OperationsEventRecord.description
 - OperationsEventRecord.id
 - OperationsEventRecordEntry.id
 - OperationsEventRecordEntry.recordId


### ProcessSegment Specific resource Specifications

`<RESOURCE>Specifications` were previously used for `OperationsDefinitions, ProcessSegments and WorkMasters and WorkDirectives. This led to lots of relationships on a <resource>Specification and ambiguous specifications. This breaking change introduces a new Specification type, Segment<resource>Specification to be used with Process Segments. Prior relationships to a ProcessSegment have been removed and the new `Segment<RESOURCE>Specification` has been added.

Update implementations to use `Segment<resource>Specification`.

Before upgrading, export existing relationships to `ProcessSegmentSpecification` as they'll be lost after migration. Then import to update.

### OperationsDefinition self-relationship name change.
The relationship names for a OperationsDefinition to itself have changed from children, parent to defines, definedBy respectively. Check for usage and if used, query out all the relationships, store them, and then re-implement once your schema is updated.

### TestSpecification to <resourceSpecification> relationships swapped
 - The `hasInverse` relationship on `TestSpecification` to an `EquipmentSpecification`, `PersonnelSpecification`, `PhysicalAssetSpecification` and `MaterialSpecification` for the `tests<RESOURCE>Specification and `testedBy<RESOURCE>Specification` has swapped to align with the description.

Snippet of change for the relationships between a `PersonnelSpecification` and a `TestSpecification`
```diff
type TestSpecification {
...
--- requiredByPersonnelSpecification: PersonnelSpecification @hasInverse(field: testedBy)
+++ requiredByPersonnelSpecification: PersonnelSpecification @hasInverse(field: specifiesTests)
...
}
 type PersonnelSpecification {
...
--- testedBy(filter: TestSpecificationFilter, order: TestSpecificationOrder, first: Int, offset: Int): [TestSpecification] @hasInverse(field: requiredByPersonnelSpecification)
---	specifiesTests(filter: TestSpecificationFilter, order: TestSpecificationOrder, first: Int, offset: Int): [TestSpecification] @hasInverse(field: testsPersonnelSpecifications)
+++	testedBy(filter: TestSpecificationFilter, order: TestSpecificationOrder, first: Int, offset: Int): [TestSpecification] @hasInverse(field: testsPersonnelSpecifications)
+++	specifiesTests(filter: TestSpecificationFilter, order: TestSpecificationOrder, first: Int, offset: Int): [TestSpecification] @hasInverse(field: requiredByPersonnelSpecification)
...
}
```

### Change Cardinality of Workmaster defines and definedBy
A work master can define multiple other work masters, yet a work master can only be defined by one. The schema was previously the opposite. Check your definedBy field aggregate count hasn't got a count greater than one. If so reduce the set to 1 before applying the new schema.

```graphql
query{
  queryWorkMaster{
    id
    aggregateDefinedBy{ count }
    definedBy { id }
  }
}
```

### Test Specification Physical Sample
The `physicalSample` field is now required. Please update implementations and set to false if unused.